README.md, before:

# Chess Lamp

A Python application that integrates your Govee table lamp with Lichess chess games. The lamp changes color based on whose turn it is during gameplay.

## Features

- 🎮 Monitors active Lichess games in real-time
- 💡 Automatically changes lamp color based on whose turn it is
- 🎨 **Themes** - Pre-configured color schemes (classic, royal, ocean, amber, and more)
- 🌅 **Gradual Dimming** - Smooth brightness transitions when colors change
- 🔄 **Hot Reload** - Change themes and settings mid-game without restarting
- 🟢 Green light when it's your turn (or theme-based colors)
- 🔴 Red light when it's your opponent's turn (or theme-based colors)
- ⏰ Time pressure warnings - lamp blinks when time is low (≤30s warning, ≤10s critical)
- ⚠️ Check detection - lamp blinks yellow when you're in check
- 💡 Move notifications - brief flash when any move is made
- 🎉 Game result celebration - green pulse for wins, red/yellow for loss/draw
- 🔄 Automatic state restoration after games end
- 🔌 Enable/Disable API - Control the lamp remotely via REST API

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A Lichess account
- A Govee table lamp connected to your network (WiFi)
- API credentials for both services
- **Network Requirements**: The machine running this service needs:
  - Internet access (to reach Lichess API)
  - Access to the same network as your Govee lamp (typically same WiFi network)

## Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Get Lichess API Token

1. Go to [Lichess API Tokens](https://lichess.org/account/oauth/token/create)
2. Create a new token with appropriate permissions
3. Copy the token

### 3. Get Govee API Credentials

You'll need:
- **Govee API Key**: Get this from the Govee developer portal or app
- **Device MAC Address**: Find this in your Govee Home app under device settings

**Note**: This project uses `govee-api-laggat`, a community library for controlling Govee devices. You can also try other libraries like `govee-api` or `aiogovee` if needed.

### 4. Configure the Application

Copy the example config file and fill in your credentials:

```bash
cp config.json.example config.json
```

Edit `config.json` with your credentials:

```json
{
  "lichess_token": "your_lichess_api_token_here",
  "govee_api_key": "your_govee_api_key_here",
  "govee_device_mac": "your_device_mac_address_here",
  "govee_device_ip": "optional_ip_address_for_lan_control",
  "restore_color": "#FFC864",
  "restore_brightness": 100,
  "theme": "classic",
  "gradual_dim_enabled": true,
  "gradual_dim_duration": 1.5
}
```

See `config.json.example` for all available options.

**Configuration Options:**
- `lichess_token` (required): Your Lichess API token
- `govee_api_key` (required): Your Govee API key
- `govee_device_mac` (required): MAC address of your Govee device
- `govee_device_ip` (optional): IP address for faster LAN control
- `restore_color` (optional): Hex color code to restore after games (e.g., `"#FFC864"` for warm yellow)
- `restore_brightness` (optional): Brightness level (0-100) to restore after games (default: 100)
- `theme` (optional): Theme name (e.g., "classic", "royal", "ocean", "amber", "traffic") - see [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for all themes
- `gradual_dim_enabled` (optional): Enable gradual dimming when colors change (default: true)
- `gradual_dim_duration` (optional): Duration of gradual dim in seconds (default: 1.5)
- `time_pressure_enabled` (optional): Enable time pressure warnings (default: true)
- `time_pressure_warning` (optional): Seconds remaining to trigger warning blink (default: 30)
- `time_pressure_critical` (optional): Seconds remaining to trigger critical fast blink (default: 10)
- `check_enabled` (optional): Enable check detection (default: true)
- `check_color` (optional): Hex color code for check indication (default: "#FFFF00" yellow)
- `check_brightness` (optional): Brightness level when in check (default: 60)
- `check_blink` (optional): Blink lamp when in check (default: true)
- `move_notification_enabled` (optional): Enable move notifications (default: true)
- `move_notification_color` (optional): Hex color code for move flash (default: "#FFFFFF" white)
- `move_notification_brightness` (optional): Brightness level for move flash (default: 80)
- `move_notification_duration` (optional): Duration of move flash in seconds (default: 0.15)
- `celebration_enabled` (optional): Enable game result celebration (default: true)
- `celebration_win_color` (optional): Hex color for win celebration (default: "#00FF00" green)
- `celebration_loss_color` (optional): Hex color for loss indication (default: "#FF0000" red)
- `celebration_draw_color` (optional): Hex color for draw indication (default: "#FFFF00" yellow)
- `celebration_brightness` (optional): Brightness for celebration (default: 100)
- `celebration_pattern_count` (optional): Number of pulses/flashes for celebration (default: 3)

**Note:** You can override theme colors by setting `my_turn_color`, `opponent_turn_color`, `my_turn_brightness`, and `opponent_turn_brightness` individually.

**Finding Hex Color Values:**
- Use an online color picker like [htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker](https://htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker/)
- Pick the color you want your lamp to return to after games
- Copy the hex code (e.g., `#FFC864`) and add it to `restore_color` in config.json

**Alternatively**, you can set environment variables:

```bash
export LICHESS_TOKEN="your_token"
export GOVEE_API_KEY="your_key"
export GOVEE_DEVICE_MAC="your_mac"
```

## Usage

### Running Directly

Run the application directly:

```bash
python chess_lamp.py
```

The application will:
1. Monitor for active Lichess games
2. When a game is detected, start streaming game events
3. Update the lamp color based on whose turn it is

### Running as a Service

**The application can run on any machine on your network** - it doesn't need to be on the same computer where you're playing Lichess. It only needs:
- Internet access to reach the Lichess API
- Network access to your Govee lamp (same WiFi network)

#### Option 1: Simple Background Service (Recommended)

Use the provided script to run as a background service:

```bash
# Make the script executable
chmod +x run_service.sh

# Start the service
./run_service.sh start

# Check status
./run_service.sh status

# Stop the service
./run_service.sh stop

# View logs
tail -f lichess_govee.log
```

#### Option 2: Systemd Service (Linux)

For a more robust system service on Linux:

1. Edit `lichess-govee.service` and update:
   - `YOUR_USERNAME` with your actual username
   - Paths if needed

2. Install the service:
   ```bash
   sudo cp lichess-govee.service /etc/systemd/system/
   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   sudo systemctl enable lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl start lichess-govee.service
   ```

3. Manage the service:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl stop lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl restart lichess-govee.service
   sudo journalctl -u lichess-govee.service -f  # View logs
   ```

#### Option 3: Docker Compose (Recommended)

Deploy using Docker Compose for easy setup and management:

```bash
# 1. Create config.json from example
cp config.json.example config.json

# 2. Edit config.json with your API credentials
nano config.json

# 3. Start the container
docker compose up -d

# 4. View logs
docker compose logs -f

# 5. Stop the container
docker compose down

# 6. Restart the container
docker compose restart
```

**Note:** The container uses `network_mode: host` to access your Govee lamp on the local network.

### Color Scheme & Themes

The lamp uses **themes** to provide chess-themed color schemes. You can change themes in `config.json` or use the API.

**Available Themes:**
- `classic` - Warm white & midnight blue (recommended)
- `royal` - Royal gold & deep purple
- `ocean` - Sky blue & navy blue
- `amber` - Amber/gold & teal
- `traffic` - Classic red/green (original behavior)
- And more! See [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for all themes

**Default (traffic theme):**
- **🟢 Green**: Your turn at 40% brightness
- **🔴 Red**: Opponent's turn at 40% brightness
- **⏰ Time Pressure**: Lamp blinks when time is low:
  - **Warning** (≤30s): Single blink when it's your turn
  - **Critical** (≤10s): Fast double blink when it's your turn
- **⚠️ Check Detection**: Lamp indicates when you're in check:
  - **Yellow blink** (default): Fast triple blink when in check
  - Configurable color and brightness
- **💡 Move Notifications**: Brief white flash when any move is made
  - Quick visual feedback for move detection
  - Configurable color, brightness, and duration
- **🎉 Game Result Celebration**: Visual celebration when games end
  - **Win**: Green pulsing pattern (3 pulses)
  - **Loss**: Red flash pattern
  - **Draw**: Yellow flash pattern
  - Configurable colors and pattern count
- **Restore Color**: Returns to your configured `restore_color` when game ends

**State Restoration:**
- Before each game, the lamp's current state is saved
- After the game ends, the lamp restores to its previous state
- If the previous state can't be determined, it uses the `restore_color` from config.json
- You can configure `restore_color` as a hex code (e.g., `"#FFC864"`) to match your preferred lamp color

**Hot Reload:**
- Edit `config.json` during a game to change themes or settings
- Changes are automatically detected and applied within ~1 second
- No need to restart the service!

**Customization:**
You can customize colors in `config.json`:
- Use a `theme` for pre-configured color schemes
- Or set `my_turn_color`, `opponent_turn_color`, `my_turn_brightness`, `opponent_turn_brightness` individually
- See [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for theme details and customization options

## How It Works

1. The application uses the `berserk` library to connect to the Lichess API
2. It monitors for ongoing games using the Lichess Games API
3. When a game is detected, it streams game events in real-time using the Board API
4. Based on the move count and player colors, it determines whose turn it is
5. The Govee lamp color is updated accordingly using the `govee-api-laggat` library

## Troubleshooting

### Lamp not responding

- Ensure your Govee lamp is connected to the same network
- Verify the MAC address is correct
- Check that the Govee API key is valid

### Game not detected

- Make sure you have an active game on Lichess
- Verify your Lichess API token has the correct permissions
- Check your internet connection

### API Errors

- Verify all API credentials are correct
- Check rate limits for both Lichess and Govee APIs
- Ensure you're using the correct API endpoints

## Customization

### Configuration File

You can customize the restore color, brightness, and time pressure warnings in `config.json`:

```json
{
  "restore_color": "#FFC864",
  "restore_brightness": 100,
  "time_pressure_enabled": true,
  "time_pressure_warning": 30,
  "time_pressure_critical": 10
}
```

- `restore_color`: Hex color code (e.g., `"#FFC864"` for warm yellow) or RGB dict `{"r": 255, "g": 200, "b": 100}`
- `restore_brightness`: Brightness level 0-100 (default: 100)
- `time_pressure_enabled`: Enable/disable time pressure warnings (default: true)
- `time_pressure_warning`: Seconds remaining to trigger warning blink (default: 30)
- `time_pressure_critical`: Seconds remaining to trigger critical fast blink (default: 10)

### Code Customization

You can also customize the behavior by modifying the `ChessLamp` class:

- **Colors**: Change RGB values in the color dictionaries
- **Brightness**: Adjust brightness levels (0-100)
- **Polling interval**: Modify the sleep time in `monitor_games()`

## Deployment

This service can run on **any machine on your network** - it doesn't need to be on the same computer where you play Lichess.

See **[DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)** for detailed deployment instructions including:
- 🐳 Docker deployment (recommended)
- ⚙️ Systemd service (Linux/Raspberry Pi)
- 🚀 Simple background service
- Quick setup script

**Quick deploy with Docker Compose:**
```bash
# 1. Create and edit config.json
cp config.json.example config.json
nano config.json

# 2. Start the service
docker compose up -d

# 3. View logs
docker compose logs -f
```

## REST API

The application includes a REST API server (port 5000) for remote control:

### Endpoints

- `GET /api/status` - Get current status (enabled state, colors, current game)
- `GET /api/themes` - Get list of available themes
- `POST /api/theme` - Set theme by name: `{"theme": "classic"}`
- `POST /api/enable` - Enable/disable chess-lamp: `{"enabled": true}` or `{"enabled": false}`
- `POST /api/dimming` - Configure gradual dimming: `{"enabled": true, "duration": 1.5}`

**Example:**
```bash
# Disable chess-lamp (restores lamp to default color)
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/enable -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"enabled": false}'

# Change theme
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/theme -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"theme": "royal"}'

# Check status
curl http://localhost:5000/api/status
```

## License

This project is provided as-is for personal use.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests if you'd like to improve this integration!

Commit message:

Add GHCR setup documentation and improve CI/CD guide
- Add detailed GHCR setup guide (deploy/ghcr-setup.md)
- Update CI_CD.md with GHCR first-time setup steps
- Add package visibility configuration instructions
- Add authentication guide for public/private packages
- Improve quick start with GHCR setup steps

README.md, after:

# Chess Lamp

A Python application that integrates your Govee table lamp with Lichess chess games. The lamp changes color based on whose turn it is during gameplay.

## Features

- 🎮 Monitors active Lichess games in real-time
- 💡 Automatically changes lamp color based on whose turn it is
- 🎨 **Themes** - Pre-configured color schemes (classic, royal, ocean, amber, and more)
- 🌅 **Gradual Dimming** - Smooth brightness transitions when colors change
- 🔄 **Hot Reload** - Change themes and settings mid-game without restarting
- 🟢 Green light when it's your turn (or theme-based colors)
- 🔴 Red light when it's your opponent's turn (or theme-based colors)
- ⏰ Time pressure warnings - lamp blinks when time is low (≤30s warning, ≤10s critical)
- ⚠️ Check detection - lamp blinks yellow when you're in check
- 💡 Move notifications - brief flash when any move is made
- 🎉 Game result celebration - green pulse for wins, red/yellow for loss/draw
- 🔄 Automatic state restoration after games end
- 🔌 Enable/Disable API - Control the lamp remotely via REST API

## Prerequisites

- Python 3.7 or higher
- A Lichess account
- A Govee table lamp connected to your network (WiFi)
- API credentials for both services
- **Network Requirements**: The machine running this service needs:
  - Internet access (to reach Lichess API)
  - Access to the same network as your Govee lamp (typically same WiFi network)

## Setup

### 1. Install Dependencies

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### 2. Get Lichess API Token

1. Go to [Lichess API Tokens](https://lichess.org/account/oauth/token/create)
2. Create a new token with appropriate permissions
3. Copy the token

### 3. Get Govee API Credentials

You'll need:
- **Govee API Key**: Get this from the Govee developer portal or app
- **Device MAC Address**: Find this in your Govee Home app under device settings

**Note**: This project uses `govee-api-laggat`, a community library for controlling Govee devices. You can also try other libraries like `govee-api` or `aiogovee` if needed.

### 4. Configure the Application

Copy the example config file and fill in your credentials:

```bash
cp config.json.example config.json
```

Edit `config.json` with your credentials:

```json
{
  "lichess_token": "your_lichess_api_token_here",
  "govee_api_key": "your_govee_api_key_here",
  "govee_device_mac": "your_device_mac_address_here",
  "govee_device_ip": "optional_ip_address_for_lan_control",
  "restore_color": "#FFC864",
  "restore_brightness": 100,
  "theme": "classic",
  "gradual_dim_enabled": true,
  "gradual_dim_duration": 1.5
}
```

See `config.json.example` for all available options.

**Configuration Options:**
- `lichess_token` (required): Your Lichess API token
- `govee_api_key` (required): Your Govee API key
- `govee_device_mac` (required): MAC address of your Govee device
- `govee_device_ip` (optional): IP address for faster LAN control
- `restore_color` (optional): Hex color code to restore after games (e.g., `"#FFC864"` for warm yellow)
- `restore_brightness` (optional): Brightness level (0-100) to restore after games (default: 100)
- `theme` (optional): Theme name (e.g., "classic", "royal", "ocean", "amber", "traffic") - see [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for all themes
- `gradual_dim_enabled` (optional): Enable gradual dimming when colors change (default: true)
- `gradual_dim_duration` (optional): Duration of gradual dim in seconds (default: 1.5)
- `time_pressure_enabled` (optional): Enable time pressure warnings (default: true)
- `time_pressure_warning` (optional): Seconds remaining to trigger warning blink (default: 30)
- `time_pressure_critical` (optional): Seconds remaining to trigger critical fast blink (default: 10)
- `check_enabled` (optional): Enable check detection (default: true)
- `check_color` (optional): Hex color code for check indication (default: "#FFFF00" yellow)
- `check_brightness` (optional): Brightness level when in check (default: 60)
- `check_blink` (optional): Blink lamp when in check (default: true)
- `move_notification_enabled` (optional): Enable move notifications (default: true)
- `move_notification_color` (optional): Hex color code for move flash (default: "#FFFFFF" white)
- `move_notification_brightness` (optional): Brightness level for move flash (default: 80)
- `move_notification_duration` (optional): Duration of move flash in seconds (default: 0.15)
- `celebration_enabled` (optional): Enable game result celebration (default: true)
- `celebration_win_color` (optional): Hex color for win celebration (default: "#00FF00" green)
- `celebration_loss_color` (optional): Hex color for loss indication (default: "#FF0000" red)
- `celebration_draw_color` (optional): Hex color for draw indication (default: "#FFFF00" yellow)
- `celebration_brightness` (optional): Brightness for celebration (default: 100)
- `celebration_pattern_count` (optional): Number of pulses/flashes for celebration (default: 3)

**Note:** You can override theme colors by setting `my_turn_color`, `opponent_turn_color`, `my_turn_brightness`, and `opponent_turn_brightness` individually.

**Finding Hex Color Values:**
- Use an online color picker like [htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker](https://htmlcolorcodes.com/color-picker/)
- Pick the color you want your lamp to return to after games
- Copy the hex code (e.g., `#FFC864`) and add it to `restore_color` in config.json

**Alternatively**, you can set environment variables:

```bash
export LICHESS_TOKEN="your_token"
export GOVEE_API_KEY="your_key"
export GOVEE_DEVICE_MAC="your_mac"
```

## Usage

### Running Directly

Run the application directly:

```bash
python chess_lamp.py
```

The application will:
1. Monitor for active Lichess games
2. When a game is detected, start streaming game events
3. Update the lamp color based on whose turn it is

### Running as a Service

**The application can run on any machine on your network** - it doesn't need to be on the same computer where you're playing Lichess. It only needs:
- Internet access to reach the Lichess API
- Network access to your Govee lamp (same WiFi network)

#### Option 1: Simple Background Service (Recommended)

Use the provided script to run as a background service:

```bash
# Make the script executable
chmod +x run_service.sh

# Start the service
./run_service.sh start

# Check status
./run_service.sh status

# Stop the service
./run_service.sh stop

# View logs
tail -f lichess_govee.log
```

#### Option 2: Systemd Service (Linux)

For a more robust system service on Linux:

1. Edit `lichess-govee.service` and update:
   - `YOUR_USERNAME` with your actual username
   - Paths if needed

2. Install the service:
   ```bash
   sudo cp lichess-govee.service /etc/systemd/system/
   sudo systemctl daemon-reload
   sudo systemctl enable lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl start lichess-govee.service
   ```

3. Manage the service:
   ```bash
   sudo systemctl status lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl stop lichess-govee.service
   sudo systemctl restart lichess-govee.service
   sudo journalctl -u lichess-govee.service -f  # View logs
   ```

#### Option 3: Docker Compose (Recommended)

Deploy using Docker Compose for easy setup and management:

```bash
# 1. Create config.json from example
cp config.json.example config.json

# 2. Edit config.json with your API credentials
nano config.json

# 3. Start the container
docker compose up -d

# 4. View logs
docker compose logs -f

# 5. Stop the container
docker compose down

# 6. Restart the container
docker compose restart
```

**Note:** The container uses `network_mode: host` to access your Govee lamp on the local network.

### Color Scheme & Themes

The lamp uses **themes** to provide chess-themed color schemes. You can change themes in `config.json` or use the API.

**Available Themes:**
- `classic` - Warm white & midnight blue (recommended)
- `royal` - Royal gold & deep purple
- `ocean` - Sky blue & navy blue
- `amber` - Amber/gold & teal
- `traffic` - Classic red/green (original behavior)
- And more! See [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for all themes

**Default (traffic theme):**
- **🟢 Green**: Your turn at 40% brightness
- **🔴 Red**: Opponent's turn at 40% brightness
- **⏰ Time Pressure**: Lamp blinks when time is low:
  - **Warning** (≤30s): Single blink when it's your turn
  - **Critical** (≤10s): Fast double blink when it's your turn
- **⚠️ Check Detection**: Lamp indicates when you're in check:
  - **Yellow blink** (default): Fast triple blink when in check
  - Configurable color and brightness
- **💡 Move Notifications**: Brief white flash when any move is made
  - Quick visual feedback for move detection
  - Configurable color, brightness, and duration
- **🎉 Game Result Celebration**: Visual celebration when games end
  - **Win**: Green pulsing pattern (3 pulses)
  - **Loss**: Red flash pattern
  - **Draw**: Yellow flash pattern
  - Configurable colors and pattern count
- **Restore Color**: Returns to your configured `restore_color` when game ends

**State Restoration:**
- Before each game, the lamp's current state is saved
- After the game ends, the lamp restores to its previous state
- If the previous state can't be determined, it uses the `restore_color` from config.json
- You can configure `restore_color` as a hex code (e.g., `"#FFC864"`) to match your preferred lamp color

**Hot Reload:**
- Edit `config.json` during a game to change themes or settings
- Changes are automatically detected and applied within ~1 second
- No need to restart the service!

**Customization:**
You can customize colors in `config.json`:
- Use a `theme` for pre-configured color schemes
- Or set `my_turn_color`, `opponent_turn_color`, `my_turn_brightness`, `opponent_turn_brightness` individually
- See [COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md](COLOR_SUGGESTIONS.md) for theme details and customization options

## How It Works

1. The application uses the `berserk` library to connect to the Lichess API
2. It monitors for ongoing games using the Lichess Games API
3. When a game is detected, it streams game events in real-time using the Board API
4. Based on the move count and player colors, it determines whose turn it is
5. The Govee lamp color is updated accordingly using the `govee-api-laggat` library

## Troubleshooting

### Lamp not responding

- Ensure your Govee lamp is connected to the same network
- Verify the MAC address is correct
- Check that the Govee API key is valid

### Game not detected

- Make sure you have an active game on Lichess
- Verify your Lichess API token has the correct permissions
- Check your internet connection

### API Errors

- Verify all API credentials are correct
- Check rate limits for both Lichess and Govee APIs
- Ensure you're using the correct API endpoints

## Customization

### Configuration File

You can customize the restore color, brightness, and time pressure warnings in `config.json`:

```json
{
  "restore_color": "#FFC864",
  "restore_brightness": 100,
  "time_pressure_enabled": true,
  "time_pressure_warning": 30,
  "time_pressure_critical": 10
}
```

- `restore_color`: Hex color code (e.g., `"#FFC864"` for warm yellow) or RGB dict `{"r": 255, "g": 200, "b": 100}`
- `restore_brightness`: Brightness level 0-100 (default: 100)
- `time_pressure_enabled`: Enable/disable time pressure warnings (default: true)
- `time_pressure_warning`: Seconds remaining to trigger warning blink (default: 30)
- `time_pressure_critical`: Seconds remaining to trigger critical fast blink (default: 10)

### Code Customization

You can also customize the behavior by modifying the `ChessLamp` class:

- **Colors**: Change RGB values in the color dictionaries
- **Brightness**: Adjust brightness levels (0-100)
- **Polling interval**: Modify the sleep time in `monitor_games()`

## Deployment

This service can run on **any machine on your network** - it doesn't need to be on the same computer where you play Lichess.

See **[DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md)** for detailed deployment instructions including:
- 🐳 Docker deployment (recommended)
- ⚙️ Systemd service (Linux/Raspberry Pi)
- 🚀 Simple background service
- Quick setup script

**Quick deploy with Docker Compose:**
```bash
# 1. Create and edit config.json
cp config.json.example config.json
nano config.json

# 2. Start the service
docker compose up -d

# 3. View logs
docker compose logs -f
```

### Automated CI/CD Deployment

Want automatic deployments when you push code? See **[CI_CD.md](CI_CD.md)** for:
- 🔄 GitHub Actions to build and push Docker images
- 🤖 Automatic updates on remote machines (Watchtower, webhooks, or cron)
- 📦 Complete CI/CD pipeline setup

## REST API

The application includes a REST API server (port 5000) for remote control:

### Endpoints

- `GET /api/status` - Get current status (enabled state, colors, current game)
- `GET /api/themes` - Get list of available themes
- `POST /api/theme` - Set theme by name: `{"theme": "classic"}`
- `POST /api/enable` - Enable/disable chess-lamp: `{"enabled": true}` or `{"enabled": false}`
- `POST /api/dimming` - Configure gradual dimming: `{"enabled": true, "duration": 1.5}`

**Example:**
```bash
# Disable chess-lamp (restores lamp to default color)
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/enable -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"enabled": false}'

# Change theme
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/theme -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"theme": "royal"}'

# Check status
curl http://localhost:5000/api/status
```

## License

This project is provided as-is for personal use.

## Contributing

Feel free to submit issues or pull requests if you'd like to improve this integration!
